# Tools & Technologies

This page covers some general recommended tools to help you get started with
building awesome things, as well as some of the tech we use within Launch Pad
for development and communication.

## General Tools

### Writing Code

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is an open-source,
  lightweight code editor with a large ecosystem of extensions that provides
  integrations with almost every language under the sun. It's a great place to
  start if you are unsure!

### Browser Plugins

* The [Sourcegraph browser extension](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration/browser_extension)
  offers IDE-like features such as documentation when you hover over code on
  GitHub - super useful for reading code and making code reviews.

## Tech @ Launch Pad

### Slack

We use Slack for team-wide communication, announcements, and project-specific
coordination. Since we are on the free tier of Slack, messages eventually
expire, so anything important or permanent should be in a GitHub issue,
version-controlled document, or wiki page.

Our Slack can be found [here](https://ubclaunchpad.slack.com); sign up now if
you haven't!

You should also install Slack on your laptop and phone, turn on @mention
notifications, and respond to messages promptly. Slack has apps available for
all major platforms.

### GitHub

We use GitHub to host, document, and manage the code in all our projects.

Launch Pad-wide documentation is hosted in this repository - if you're not sure
about something, this is the first place to check. Each project has an
associated GitHub repository, and documentation for the project lives in that
repository, either as version-controlled files (preferably in Markdown format
like these) or in the wiki.

### ZenHub & GitHub Projects

[ZenHub](https://www.zenhub.com/) is an addition to GitHub that adds more
advanced project management tools. We use ZenHub for tracking issues within
projects, assigning issues to members, and viewing project progress.

You should install the ZenHub Chrome or Firefox extension and get acquainted with
its features if you aren't already.

Alternatively, some teams at Launch Pad might use the built-in
[GitHub project boards](https://help.github.com/articles/about-project-boards/)
for team management - check with your tech lead to see what's in use!

### Rocket

[Rocket](https://github.com/ubclaunchpad/rocket) is our very own Slack bot, used
for managing our roster across Slack, GitHub, and our website.

You can get started by typing `@rocket help` into a private Slack chat with
@rocket. Please don't do this in a public channel like #general, as everyone
will be able to see your interactions with Rocket.

The name and position you provide, along with your Slack profile picture, will
automatically show up on our website (once you've been added to a team).
Providing your GitHub username allows Rocket to add you to the correct GitHub
teams and repositories.
